Gate 4 report received. Strong work, clean cleanup. Before I approve Publish, close the two caveats you flagged with additional read-only verification. Do NOT Publish. Do NOT make any schema edits.
Check 1 — Dev ↔ Prod column-level comparison (closes caveat 2, the important one)
The deploy planner uses dev as its source-of-truth. Gate 2 fixed the one known dev↔prod mismatch. You need to verify there are no other dev↔prod mismatches that would cause the planner to emit additional destructive ALTERs on the next Publish.
Using both PROD_DATABASE_URL and whatever legitimate dev connection is available (DEV_DATABASE_URL or equivalent Replit Secret — same hygiene rules, never echoed, never logged), run against both databases:
sqlSELECT table_schema, table_name, column_name, data_type, udt_name, character_maximum_length, is_nullable, column_default
FROM information_schema.columns
WHERE table_schema = 'public'
ORDER BY table_name, ordinal_position;
Then compute the set difference in both directions:

Columns present in dev but missing in prod (planner would CREATE/ADD — usually safe).
Columns present in prod but missing in dev (planner might DROP — DANGEROUS, flag loudly).
Columns present in both but with different types, nullability, character_maximum_length, or defaults (planner would ALTER — any of these could be destructive).

Report a table of every mismatch. Exclude cosmetic-only differences (e.g., text and character varying with no max length have identical semantics in Postgres, but report them anyway so I can judge).
Specifically highlight:

Any type difference where an automatic cast would fail (text→integer, text→date, varchar→uuid, etc.)
Any NOT NULL in dev that's NULL in prod (would cause SET NOT NULL to fail if prod has NULL rows)
Any column shorter in dev than in prod (would cause data truncation)
Any column present only in prod (would be dropped if the planner is aggressive)

If the set difference shows only the new tables and columns from the originally-failing migration (which prod doesn't have yet but dev does), that's expected and fine — those are the ADD operations the planner is supposed to emit. What you're looking for is anything else.
Check 2 — shared/schema.ts table enumeration vs prod (partially closes caveat 1)
Enumerate every table defined in shared/schema.ts (every pgTable(...) call). For each one, query information_schema.tables on prod and confirm whether the table exists. Report:

Tables defined in shared/schema.ts but missing from prod (planner will CREATE — flag the originally-failing migration's two new tables as expected; anything else is unknown drift).
Tables present in prod but NOT defined in shared/schema.ts (interesting for a different reason — not a deploy risk, but indicates shared/schema.ts is missing entries and the codebase has tables no one tracks).

For category 1, anything beyond the two vrm_repair_tracker_* tables we already know about needs to be flagged explicitly.
Reporting
Consolidated report with:

Check 1: full mismatch table, with loud highlighting of any dangerous mismatch.
Check 2: full list of category 1 and category 2 tables.
Explicit verdict: "Safe to Publish — no unknown drift, only expected additive changes" OR "Unsafe — here's what else the planner will try to change."
Cleanup confirmation (no writes attempted, connections closed, temp files deleted, migrations/ and shared/schema.ts unchanged, git status clean).

Hard rules still in effect:

Read-only on both prod and dev.
Connection string hygiene — never echoed, never logged.
No file edits.
No Publish.
If any dangerous mismatch is found, STOP after the report — do not attempt to fix. We decide together.